Jacob Arnold
21-jul-2021

# NIC Ice Charts:
Sea ice charts for the years 2002-present from the national ice center are available to download from https://usicecenter.gov/Products/AntarcData 

These charts contain polygons traced around areas with similar ice features. Each polygon includes information on UP TO 4 ice types (thickest, second thickeest… ect.). Charts are stored as shapefiles (.shp), a common arcGIS format which can easily be read into MATLAB (see Antarctic-Sea-Ice-Thickness repository for examples), Python, etc. 

Sea ice charts for 10/1997-12/2001 are available from the National Ice Center upon request. 
These are stored as .e00 files, an earlier arcGIS format which is not directly usable in most geospatial tools.  

# Using .e00 files. 
These must, therefore, be converted to shapefiles to use them outside arcGIS. 
Unfortunately this is not easy, it can be done with arcGIS one file at a time. 
However, for larger file batches this approach is impractical. 

###  ~~~TWO EXAMPLES ARE PROVIDED AND RENAMED read_e00_Year and CtoF_year ~~~

Open source software AVCE00 with program avcimport facillitates conversion of .e00 files to ArcInfo binary coverages
Open source software GDAL with program ogr2ogr facillitates conversion of ArcInfo binary coverages to shapefiles

simply loop through all files and run 
```shell
avcimport <filename.e00> <outdirectory name>  
```
next loop throgh the newly generated coverage directories running 
```shell
ogr2ogr -f "ESRI Shapefile" <out shapefile dir name> <in coverage dir name>
```

executable files read_e00 (in each year's directory) and CtoF (in year/Convert1) do this. 

Note 1997-2000 the data are divided into 6 regions
     2001-2002 the data are hemispheric so they are named differently and the read_e00 and CtoF programs are altered accordingly

final output data is to be found in year/Convert2


*******THE PAL series of shapefiles data seem to be the correct ones, the others house less/incomplete polygon information.*********


converted data can be read in matalb with data = m_shaperead('filename_withNOextension')
 

